Project Ado.TE

The Ado.TE Project is a practical system developed as part of the Python Full course. This system facilitates pet adoption, where users can register pets for adoption, request adoptions, and manage adoption requests.
Key Features

    Pet Registration: Users can enter detailed information about pets available for adoption, including name, photo, breed, description, location, and tags.

    Pet Filtering: Users can filter pets by city and breed to find those they wish to adopt.

    Adoption Requests: Users can request the adoption of pets available on the platform.

    Request Management: Administration of adoption requests, allowing approval or rejection of adoption applications.

Environment Setup

To run the project locally, follow the steps below:
Prerequisites

    Python 3.6 or higher
    Django 3.0 or higher
    MySQL database

Installation

    Clone the repository

    bash

git clone https://github.com/your-username/adote.git
cd adote

Install dependencies

bash

pip install -r requirements.txt

Configuration

    Create an .env file in the project root with the necessary environment variables (see .env.example for reference).

    Configure environment variables for MySQL database connection in the settings.py file.

Apply migrations

bash

python manage.py migrate

Create a superuser

bash

python manage.py createsuperuser

Run the development server

bash

    python manage.py runserver

    Access the system

    Open your browser and visit http://localhost:8000.

Usage

    Log in as an administrator to manage pets, adoption requests, and users.

    As a regular user, register pets for adoption, filter pets by city and breed, and request adoptions.

Technologies Used

    Python
    Django
    HTML/CSS (Bootstrap)
    JavaScript (Chart.js)

Contributions

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit pull requests with improvements or bug fixes.
License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.




## And now in Portuguese:




Projeto Ado.TE

O Projeto Ado.TE é um sistema prático desenvolvido como parte do curso Python Full. Este sistema facilita a adoção de pets, onde os usuários podem cadastrar pets para adoção, solicitar adoções e gerenciar pedidos de adoção.
Funcionalidades Principais

    Cadastro de Pets: Os usuários podem inserir informações detalhadas sobre pets disponíveis para adoção, incluindo nome, foto, raça, descrição, localização e tags.

    Filtragem de Pets: Os usuários podem filtrar pets por cidade e raça para encontrar aqueles que desejam adotar.

    Pedidos de Adoção: Os usuários podem solicitar a adoção de pets disponíveis na plataforma.

    Gestão de Pedidos: Administração de pedidos de adoção, permitindo a aprovação ou recusa de solicitações de adoção.

Configuração do Ambiente

Para executar o projeto localmente, siga os passos abaixo:
Pré-requisitos

    Python 3.6 ou superior
    Django 3.0 ou superior
    Banco de dados MySQL

Instalação

    Clone o repositório

    bash

git clone https://github.com/seu-usuario/adote.git
cd adote

Instale as dependências

bash

pip install -r requirements.txt

Configuração

    Crie um arquivo .env na raiz do projeto com as variáveis de ambiente necessárias (veja .env.example para referência).

    Configure as variáveis de ambiente para conexão com o banco de dados MySQL no arquivo settings.py.

Execute as migrações

bash

python manage.py migrate

Crie um superusuário

bash

python manage.py createsuperuser

Execute o servidor de desenvolvimento

bash

    python manage.py runserver

    Acesse o sistema

    Abra seu navegador e visite http://localhost:8000.

Uso

    Faça login como administrador para gerenciar pets, pedidos de adoção e usuários.

    Como usuário regular, cadastre pets para adoção, filtre pets por cidade e raça, e solicite adoções.

Tecnologias Utilizadas

    Python
    Django
    HTML/CSS (Bootstrap)
    JavaScript (Chart.js)

Contribuições

Contribuições são bem-vindas! Sinta-se à vontade para enviar pull requests com melhorias ou correções de bugs.
Licença

Este projeto está licenciado sob a Licença MIT.